# News Popularity Prediction
<ul>
<li>News articles are very dynamic due to their relation to continuously developing events that typically have shortlifespans. For a news article to be popular, it is essential
for it to propagate to a large number of readers withina short time. Hence there exists a competition amongdifferent sources to generate content which is relevant to a large subset of the population and becomes virally popular.</li>
  <li>Due to the time-sensitive aspect and the intense competition for attention, accurately estimating the extent to which a news article will spread on the web is extremely valuable to journalists, content providers, advertisers, and news recommendation systems. Thisis also important for activists and politicians who areusing the web increasinglymore to influence public opinion.</li>
  <li>However, predicting online popularity of news articles is a challenging task. First, context outside the web is often not readily accessible and elements such as local and geographical conditions and various circumstances that affect the population make this prediction difficult. Furthermore, network properties such as the structureof social networks that are propagating the news, influence variations among members, and interplay between different sections of the web add other layers of complexity to this problem. Most significantly, intuition suggests that the content of an article must play a crucial role in its popularity. Content that resonates with a majority of the readers such as a major world-wide event can be expected to garner wide attention while specific content relevant only to a few may not be a successful.</li>
  
<li>This is a large data set of news items and their respective social feedback on multiple platforms: Facebook, Google+ and LinkedIn.The collected data relates to a period of 8 months, between November 2015 and July 2016, accounting for about 100,000 news items on four different topics: Economy, Microsoft, Obama and Palestine.</li>
</ul>
